# A quick look at modules

You used `go run` previously to run the program, but didn't I say earlier that programs were compiled to their own executables?

This is because, to compile a program into an executable, we need to create what is called a **module**.

A module is essentially a container for the entire project - including all of its libraries and executables it can make. The closest equivalent you may be familiar with would be a JavaScript monorepo. 

Each module contains many "packages", which are individual libraries or executables, and each package is contained within its own folder.

For instance, an example Go module might look like this:

```
.
├── app
│   └── main.go
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── libapp
    └── library.go

3 directories, 4 files
```

Here, we can see two files important to a module - `go.mod` and `go.sum`. `go.sum` is automatically generated by Go, and shouldn't really be tampered with manually. `go.sum` is editable manually, but for this guide we will primarily use the `go mod` tool in order to edit it in a more friendly way.

To create a module, we can use the `go mod init` command. For example, taking our `hello-world.go` example from earlier, we can create a module for it by simply running `go mod init hello-world` in the same directory as it.

The `go.mod` file stores information about the dependencies for the entire module. In order to populate this file automatically from the `import` sections, we can use the `go mod tidy` command, which will automatically download any external dependencies. Since `hello-world.go` only used the `fmt` package from the standard library, we shouldn't need to run this, however, keep this in mind in future if you wish to import external libraries.

Now, to build our finished `hello-world.go`, we can run the `go build` command. Once this is done, you should see the file `hello-world` appear[^1]. To run this program, use `./hello-world`[^2], and if everything is correct, you should see, again:
```
Bonjour, Terre!
```

This program will now work weather or not the `go` command is installed on your system! Go statically links it's binaries such that all the necessary runtimes to run the program are included. Unlike C, the libraries usually aren't linked dynamically, so you do not have to handle complicated dependency chains.[^3]

[^1]: `hello-world.exe` if you're on Windows.
[^2]: Or `.\hello-world.exe` on Windows.
[^3]: Using CGo, Go inherits any C dependencies the program may have.